# SEIN-SLAM
Neural Radiance Fields (NeRF) have recently been widely used in 3D scene reconstruction.However, traditional NeRF lacks semantic information. In this paper, we propose Semantic-Enhanced Implicit Neural SLAM (SEIN-SLAM), a novel SLAM approach that extends NeRF network. SEIN-SLAM integrates implicit neural representations with sparse semantic annotations to achieve precise 3D scene understanding and localization. This method incorporates the prediction of semantic labels directly into the NeRF network architecture, leveraging NeRF's implicit representation capability to learn semantic information directly from observations. Even in the presence of annotation errors, the multi-view consistency characteristic of NeRF can propagate and optimize these labels, enhancing the robustness of the semantic segmentation. Furthermore, SEIN-SLAM employs a multi-resolution hash grid to effectively encode the geometric and semantic features of the scene, allowing high-resolution representation of the scene while maintaining computational efficiency. Extensive experiments on multiple datasets validated the performance of SEIN-SLAM in semantic reconstruction and camera tracking. The results demonstrate that our method not only generates accurate 3D reconstructions but also provides robust semantic segmentation across various environments, which further show competitiveness compared to the existing dense SLAM methods based on NeRF.
Keywords: Field Robots, Dense semantic mapping, NeRF-based SLAM, 3D reconstruction
